README.md, before:

# Customer Service for Carlease assigment

## Functionality

RESTFull webservice facilitating CRUD operations on a Customer datastore 
Not using Spring REST repositories for this service (even though that would speed things up tremendously)

- [x] list customers
- [x] create customer
- [ ] fetch customer by id
- [ ] update customers attribute
- [ ] delete specific customer
- [ ] fetch customers by name keyword
- [ ] authentication
- [ ] containerize

Phasing depends on how much time can be made free

### URL mapping
- [x] Phase 1: Basic URL mapping docs
- [ ] Phase 2: Swagger docs
```
api prefix and version should be handled by an api gateway
GET:    {domain}/customers       - returns al customers ? possible filtering
GET:    {domain}/customers/{id}  - returns specific customer
POST    {domain}/customers       - create new user
DELETE: {domain}/customers/{id}  - delete specific user
PUT:    {domain}/customers/{id}  - update specific user
```
## Authentication

- [ ] Phase 1: using JWT with using symmetric keys
- [ ] Phase 2: using JWT adding refresh token
- [ ] Phase 3: using JWT using asymmetric keys
- [ ] Phase 4: JWT facilitated by Keycloak

```shell
docker run -p 9090:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_USER=admin -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:13.0.1
```

### import 
[docs](https://hub.docker.com/r/jboss/keycloak/)

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit cefae4246de287f8b2ab029f72a00e12abb08a0e
Author: Remi de Boer <r.d.d.de.boer@hva.nl>
Date:   Sun Jun 13 18:38:48 2021 +0200

    Added basic JWT authentication using a global filter. Added tests and modified earlier tests to exclude filter

README.md, after:

# Customer Service for Carlease assigment

## Functionality

RESTFull webservice facilitating CRUD operations on a Customer datastore 
Not using Spring REST repositories for this service (even though that would speed things up tremendously)

- [x] list customers
- [x] create customer
- [ ] fetch customer by id
- [ ] update customers attribute
- [ ] delete specific customer
- [ ] fetch customers by name keyword
- [ ] authentication
- [ ] containerize

Phasing depends on how much time can be made free

### URL mapping
- [x] Phase 1: Basic URL mapping docs
- [ ] Phase 2: Swagger docs
```
api prefix and version should be handled by an api gateway
GET:    {domain}/customers       - returns al customers ? possible filtering
GET:    {domain}/customers/{id}  - returns specific customer
POST    {domain}/customers       - create new user
DELETE: {domain}/customers/{id}  - delete specific user
PUT:    {domain}/customers/{id}  - update specific user
```
## Authentication

- [ ] Phase 1: using JWT with using symmetric keys
- [ ] Phase 2: using JWT adding refresh token
- [ ] Phase 3: using JWT using asymmetric keys
- [ ] Phase 4: JWT facilitated by Keycloak

```shell
docker run -p 9090:8080 -e KEYCLOAK_USER=admin -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:13.0.1
```

### Phase 1: JWT with using symmetric keys

This service shall not support login and generating JWT's that is delegated to another service. This service
only needs to be able to validate the token even though a first validation is performed at the system entry point. 
All endpoints need authentication, so a global filter is used in front of the controllers to check for a valid JWT. 
User details are not required by this service and can be made available in claims. Spring Security will therefore not be used by this service. 
The signing secret is shared between services. From a security viewpoint not the most secure if a secret is compromised.

- [x] Adding filter (OncePerRequest) 
- [x] Unit Test validation of JWT
- [x] Integration Test application of filter
- [x] Modify already present tests with a mock filter

### import 
[docs](https://hub.docker.com/r/jboss/keycloak/)
